Newsgroups: rec.games.rogue
Subject: Re: Rogue versions.
Expires: Wed, 16 Jun 1993 01:00:00 GMT
Distribution: usa
Organization:

)There are two-and-a-half versions of "standard" rogue.
)
)Rogue 5.2 (the first widely available version) had Rust monsters, Giant
)Ants, etc.
)
)Rogue 5.3 (a later version by the same authors) changed several of the
)monsters, thus it had Rattlesnakes, Aquators, etc.  It also had some new
)items, like the scroll of protect armor that you mentioned in your
)posting.  I believe that this version also added death by hypothermia.
) 
)Rogue "clone" should really be called "rogue imposter."  This is
)currently the only widely available version of the game, because the
)original sources were never made available.  It is supposed to be a copy
)of rogue 5.3.  Unfortunately it fails to accurately reproduce many
)aspects of the game that some of us remember very fondly.  One of the
)most obvious omissions is indeed the dark rooms.  Another omission, I
)believe, is confusion after teleportation.  Finally, I believe it has
)rather different probabilities for several key items than the original.
)(However I can't prove this without the original sources.)
)


Rogue 8.0 runs very well on mainframes running UTS UNIX and on the 386/486
systems.  However, it has problems with playing saved games on both Vax
systems and Sun workstations. 

Here are some of the features of Rogue 8.0

1)  New option called "default" was added.  When you put the word default
    into your environment variable ROGUEOPTS your character will be rolled
    with "default" attribute settings, armor, weapon, quest item, and food.

    This then, skips the beginning screen where you choose/distribute the
    attribute points and also skips the beginning "equippage screen" where
    you are able to choose your own armor, weapon, quest item, and etc.

    If you also use the "class" option in your ROGUEOPTS variable, you
    will start the game immediately at level 1 with default selections.
    Example:

    ROGUEOPTS="class=magician, default, name=Joe, nopickup, overlay"
    export ROGUEOPTS

    The other options tell the game that you don't want to automatically
    want to pick up items as you step over them and overlay the screen
    with menus (ie, don't blank and pause the screens).  If you don't set
    "class" you will be able to choose your character type before you
    are placed on level 1.

2)  The nine character types have been modified to the point where you 
    really have to take advantage of their various attributes during play.

    Here's a list of their main and secondary attributes, special ability,
    and each character's "default" quest item:

    Character Main Attr.    Secondary     Specialties       Quest Item
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fighter   strength      constitution  sense gold        Axe of Aklad
    Ranger    charisma      intelligence  cast spells       Mandolin of Brian
    Paladin   charisma      wisdom        affect undead     Ankh of Heil
    Cleric    wisdom        dexterity     prayer spells     Horn of Geryon
    Magician  intelligence  dexterity     cast spells       Stonebones Amulet
    Thief     dexterity     strength      sense traps       Musty Daggers
    Assassin  dexterity     strength      steal/use poison  Eye of Vecna
    Druid     wisdom        dexterity     chant spells      Quill of Nagrom
    Monk      constitution  dexterity     chant spells      Emori Cloak

    A different quest item may be chosen while you are in the beginning
    equippage room (if you've not set the "default" option via ROGUEOPTS).

    Also, the Ranger, Paladin, and Monk characters do not receive their
    "special" abilities until they've gained some experience levels.
    These three characters are derivative of the Magician, Cleric, and
    Druid characters, with some of the Fighter's abilities as well.

3)  The outer region has been enhanced.  This is the area you find yourself
    in if you go up the stairs from level 1 _before_ you obtain your quest
    item.  Dinosaurs inhabit this area and you will also find magic items
    here as well.

4)  A new trap was added called wormhole.  It sends you to the outer region
    if you happen to fall into it.  You will remain at the same dungeon
    level, until you find a staircase back out.  Dinosaurs get tougher at
    the deeper levels.

5)  New commands and/or changes made to current commands:

    '?' gives help as before but you can now type '?@' which will display
	the things that you may encounter (solid rock, potion, forest, etc).

    '>' go down the stairs, dive into a magic pool, or enter a trap (you
	have to be flying and/or wearing Elven boots to stand on traps).

    '<" go up the stairs or enter the outer region if your standing
        upon the wormhole trap.

    'A' choose your quest item (must be done in beginning equippage room.

    'F' Frighten a monster (the "good" characters can use this command
	to scare away monsters that they don't want to kill but are in
	their way.  The command will lose power at around level 10.

    'g' give food to monsters (slime-molds) also important when trying
	to obtain a certain quest item.

    'G' sense for gold (if your character has this ability).

    'O' display your character type and quest item.

    'X' sense for traps (if your character has this ability).

    '^' set a trap (if your character has this ability).

    '+' get your fortune (warning: if you play over a modem typing three
	consecutive '+' will tell your modem to enter command mode.  See
	your modem manual on how to get back out.

    'ctrl-b' tally up your current score (if you were to win).

    'ctrl-e' check your current food level (satiated, weak, or fainting).

    'ctrl-o' your character's status (fast, blind, protected, dancing, etc).

6)  Changes to scrolls and potions, rings, misc magic, and quest items:

    You can now wear up to 8 rings, four per hand.

    Scrolls: 
    - Monster confusion turns your hands a variety of colors (no biggie).
    - Fixed magic mapping for very detailed maps
    - Genocide works on monsters in the dungeon; dinosaurs in the outer region.
    - Blessed teleportation teleports you up a few levels.
    - Blessed remove curse will cause some monsters to panic.
    - Charm monster lets you charm a few monsters which will then follow you
      down the dungeon levels (if they are in room when you go downstairs).

    Potions:
    - Clear thought, extra sight, phasing, flying, and cold/fire/lightning
      protection potions last a bit longer if they are blessed when quaffed.

    Misc magic items:
    - You can use Keoghtoms ointment a few more times before it will empty.
    - The Beaker of Potions and Book of Spells hold a few more items.
    - The Book of Skills can change you into a different character (it used
      to just do an increase level).
    - The Medicine Crystal is a new misc magic item that cures you. 

    Quest items (relics):
    - These items used to appear at level 40.  They now will appear between
      levels 40-50, the less traumatic ones earlier.
    - The Card of Alteran is a new quest item and requires some strategy
      to obtain it from it's carrier.


